MSCI 391 WORK TERM 
REPORT 
 
Zhenghan Yong 
Student ID: 20704765

1 
 
 
Pregraduation Experience Record Form 
 
 
Instructions 
 
a - If you are using a word processing software such as “Word” or ‘WordPerfect”, simply enter 
the information in the shaded fields (These fields will expand; you can type as much information 
as you wish in each section.)  Otherwise, print the form and provide the information on separate 
sheets. 
b - Print the completed form and ask your supervisor to review the information, complete the 
last portion and sign the document. 
c - Retain the completed and signed form until you’re ready to apply for your P.Eng. licence.  
PEO will only determine the eligibility of your pre-graduation experience when you apply for your 
licence. 
 
Section to be completed by the student 
 
Name of student: Zhenghan Yong  
 
University: University of Waterloo  
 
Program of study: Management Engineering  
 
Expected graduation date: April 2022 (month and year) 
 
Work period: From: 09/09/2019  (DD/MM/YY)   To: 20/12/2019  (DD/MM/YY) 
 
 
 
 
Job title: Advanced App Engineering Sr Analyst 
 
Company name: Accenture 
 
 
Job Description 
Please describe the engineering component of your position in 3 to 5 sentences. 
  As a full-stack developer, I developed technological solutions in a rapid 
prototyping environment. I built a product authentication blockchain platform 
using Hyperledger Fabric and Amazon Web Services following AWS cloud 
architectural principles. I collaborated with a team of eight and completed the 
project early with high standards. As a team, we created a mobile application 
using React Native that demonstrated features of the technological solution 
effectively.

2 
Application of Theory                                                      Enter the percent of time : 100% 
The application of theory is a mandatory requirement. Therefore it is expected that each 
position will provide some exposure to this criterion.  Clearly outline your contribution to the 
work that was undertaken. 
As a full-stack developer in the team, I applied good design principles and theories for 
application development. In order to make a fault-tolerant application, I designed the 
backend and frontend to handle errors and give actionable error messages. This allows 
us to troubleshoot the application easily when errors occur instead of application 
crashes without giving any clue to what the problem was. I needed to create test cases 
and perform functional testing for newly developed functions of a mobile application in 
a development environment to ensure its reliability. Then, once the feature is tested and 
proven to be stable, it will then be updated on the production build of the application. 
Other Experience 
Please describe how your work experience addressed the other four criteria - (practical 
experience, engineering management, communication skills and social implications) 
  In order to make our solution practical, we created a demonstration that has a full 
fashion product supply chain with our solution implemented. The purpose of this is to 
show how our digital identity management system can be included seamlessly in an 
existing streamlined system, as well, it shows how the solution can eliminate 
counterfeit goods from entering the high-end fashion market. The project is done in a 
fully agile environment with 2-week sprints. We have a product owner, scrum master 
and tech lead to facilitate the project. Every sprint we have planned tasks pre-assigned, 
and we have daily stand-ups where we need to report progress on tasks. At the end of 
each 2-week sprint, we were also required to present all work done this sprint to tech 
lead and product owner. When the project was finished, we have done countless 
demonstrations across departments that showcase our solution and its capability. 
 
 
Name of Supervisor: Christopher Flora 
Title of Supervisor: Advanced App Engineering Manager 
Mailing Address: 
      
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
      
Phone number: 
 416-641-3019 
E-mail address: 
 christopher.a.flora@accenture.com  
 
Supervisor’s Signature: 
__ 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Professional Engineer:    Yes    No 
Licence/Registration Number:

3 
Date:  
 
________ 
_______________________ 
 
December 13, 2019

4 
Job details: 
 
I worked as a member of a developer team for a technological solution development project at 
Accenture’s innovation hub, Liquid Studio. As a developer, I worked on the frontend, as well as 
backend development work for the final solution. As well, being the member that has the most 
business-savvy mindset in the developer team, I helped the team organize and present our 
deliverables to tech lead and product owner on a bi-weekly basis. 
 
Our backend work mostly consisted of creating functions that perform a set of actions to the 
ledger in our Hyperledger Fabric blockchain network. Other tasks that I did include setting up 
and testing API endpoints, writing chaincode that include sets of validation rules for each and 
every action done on the blockchain, as well as creating, managing and securing user login and 
access credentials. Most of these tasks were made easy using Amazon Web Services (AWS). We 
ran our express server that managed API calls as well as the blockchain network on an EC2 
instance, a computing service provided by AWS. This saved us a lot of money for not having to 
invest in physical equipment and sped up the development process by eliminating setup work 
for physical hardware. Since we are using cloud services, we only had to pay for the computing 
power and storage we used. We also used AWS Cognito and Identity and Access Management 
service to manage user credentials for application login. Postman was also used to test APIs to 
make sure that they are giving correct responses. Once these APIs were tested, they were then 
attached to a component in the frontend. 
 
In order to fully showcase the capability of our technological solution, we decided that we 
would build a mobile application that has user-friendly UI to make complicated blockchain 
operations easy to perform and understand. After our UI/UX designer came up with mock 
designs of the user-facing application, I started building the frontend interfaces using React 
Native. The application was built to be used by users with three different personas: brand, 
retailer and customer. I mainly worked on the frontend interfaces for the retailer as well as the 
customer. Once the cross-ponding backend features have been finished, I linked the frontend 
components with the backend APIs. I would test the functionality of each and every feature. I 
first came up with test cases that cover all use cases of the feature. Then, I implemented error 
handlers into our application so that when we encounter errors or bugs, we would know what 
went wrong at which part of our code. This process can be time-consuming, but it is one of the 
most important steps for a production-grade application.  
  
Since the whole project was done in a fully agile environment, we had 2-week sprints for the 
project. By the end of each sprint, we need to present our technical work to the product owner 
and tech lead in a clear and concise manner. Among the members of the development team, I 
had the most business background. So, I led the creation, organization, and presentation of our 
end of sprint demonstrations. I connected the technical tasks we have done with real-life use 
cases so that people can easily understand what we did without understanding tools, 
languages, and modules we used to build these features. As well, once the project was finished,

5 
I created a demonstration guide and script for our solution presentations. I made this technical 
solution demo easy to set up, present and understand from a businessperson’s perspective. 
 
Coursework: 
 
Since this is a developer role with software development tasks, I was able to use many of the 
knowledge learned in programming courses such as MSCI 240. Many of the coding best 
practices that I learned were used during this work term despite the fact that I did not use the 
same programming language. I realized that a lot of the same coding best practices apply to 
different coding languages. 
 
Many of the theories that I learned from MSCI 211, organizational behavior, came in handy 
while working with collogues in the workplace. For example, when I first started my work term, 
I could quickly gain insights into the atmosphere of the team I was working just by analyzing 
their individual behaviors. I learned in MSCI211 that the overall atmosphere of the workplace is 
closely connected to how each of the individuals behaves in it. I was able to use the behavior I 
see in the workplace to quickly get on track and start my work. 
 
In terms of other courses that I have done, I can’t relate to them as much as the two above. I 
really did use what learned in the above two courses since I am working in a corporate technical 
team. 
 
Self-Reflection: 
 
Expectations: 
 
I came into my work term with two expectations for myself: get to know the inside out about 
the software development cycle and process by being a part of it, connect with consulting 
department employees and seek guidance on how to become a technology consultant, my ideal 
career after graduation. 
 
I have met my first expectation since I did get the software development experience that I 
expected. Working along with senior software solution architects really widened my view on 
software development. I definitely learned a lot of software development skills as well as the 
process of how tech solutions are produced and proposed to clients. 
 
I did not, however, had enough time to connect to consultants in the company since I spent 
most of my time working on my project. I failed to network with others and get to know about 
my dream future career. Although it is an opportunity missed, I would still continue to look for 
opportunities to do so.

6 
Improvement: 
 
Since the project we worked on involved a lot of cloud services on Amazon Web Services 
Platform, I find myself struggling to understand and know these features provided by AWS, and 
without these basic understanding, I was inefficient at performing my tasks. I discovered that 
AWS provides training for people to quickly get on board with development using their cloud-
based services. I was able to take a functional level training from AWS, which helped me 
understand AWS cloud architecture, the services it provides, as well as good practices and 
design choices when using cloud services. I worked much more effectively after taking the 
course, and I was able to take a certification test and become an AWS Certified Cloud 
Practitioner. I can now confidently say that I know what cloud computing is, why we use cloud 
services, and how to use cloud services to benefit businesses and projects. 
 
Impact: 
 
Before this work term, I am a person that did not care too much about product branding, I 
thought that it is simply made to encourage the growth of consumerism. However, while 
working on this project about using technology to prevent counterfeit products from entering 
consumer markets, I realized the negative impact of counterfeits on the environment, 
businesses, and lives of people. I realized how useful our solution could become and how much 
impact will it make once it gets introduced to all sorts of industries. 
 
Year after year, luxury brands, for the sake of preventing real, slightly outdated fashion 
products falling into counterfeiter’s hands, burn all products in their inventory. However, with 
our digital identity management solution, bags can be kept for years, and will still have digital 
identity attached that will prove its authenticity permanently. This gives these bags value that 
no other counterfeits can replace, thus, brands won’t need to burn their products anymore.  
  
Many drug companies produce life-saving drugs that are under invasion by counterfeit drug 
products. These products look the same as the real ones, however, they are produced in a no-
name factory with tweaked ingredients. They are either less effective, not effective, or even 
cause death. With our solution, we can prevent counterfeit drugs from entering the market by 
assigning non-replicable digital identities to these real drugs and ensure the customers that 
they are buying real authentic products. 
 
Next CO-OP: 
 
I would like to continue working in technology solution development teams because I truly 
believe that emerging technologies can be used to solve some of the world’s biggest problems. 
I want to be part of a team that innovates and develops these solutions and makes a difference 
in whatever industry it gets applied to.

7 
I would also like to gain more business analytics skills so that I will be able to suggest these 
advanced solutions to companies and solve their most head aching problems. 
 
Resume Description of CO-OP: 
 
-      Developed technological solutions in a rapid prototyping environment at Accenture Liquid 
Studio 
-      Built a product authentication blockchain platform using Hyperledger Fabric and Amazon 
Web Services  
-      Worked effectively as a full-stack developer in an agile software development team with 2-
week sprints  
-      Collaborated with a team of eight and completed the project early with high standards 
-      Received formal training and socially accredited as an AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Work Term Report 
Course Number: MSCI 491 
Student ID: 20704765 
Student Name: Gary Yong 
Date: April 24, 2021

1 
 
 
Pregraduation Experience Record Form 
 
 
Instructions 
 
a - If you are using a word processing software such as “Word” or ‘WordPerfect”, simply enter 
the information in the shaded fields (These fields will expand; you can type as much information 
as you wish in each section.)  Otherwise, print the form and provide the information on separate 
sheets. 
b - Print the completed form and ask your supervisor to review the information, complete the 
last portion and sign the document. 
c - Retain the completed and signed form until you’re ready to apply for your P.Eng. licence.  
PEO will only determine the eligibility of your pre-graduation experience when you apply for your 
licence. 
 
Section to be completed by the student 
 
Name of student: Zhenghan (Gary) Yong  
 
University: University of Waterloo  
 
Program of study: Management Engineering 
 
Expected graduation date: May 2022 (month and year) 
 
Work period: From: 06/01/21 (DD/MM/YY)   To: 30/04/21  (DD/MM/YY) 
 
 
 
 
Job title: Project Management Intern 
 
Company name: PepsiCo Foods Canada 
 
 
Job Description 
Please describe the engineering component of your position in 3 to 5 sentences. 
For my work term at PepsiCo Foods Canada, I was able to engage in three initiatives as 
a member of the business innovation team.  
 
The first initiative is to perform Causal Impact analysis for the media team. Using 
techniques such as data aggregation, test-control group analysis, I was able to derive 
data-driven insights regarding the performance of our social media campaigns. The 
results were presented to all stakeholders including an overview of the data used, our 
findings, and what we think are the executable next steps given the results. 
 
The second initiative is to improve the user experience of an internal dashboarding tool. 
I was able to satisfy stakeholder’s requirements by improving the usability of an

2 
inefficient and outdated data visualization dashboard using Tableau. This initiative was 
completed in an agile environment involving twice-a-week stakeholder meetings. Each 
milestone is saved and tracked, and each feature is tested with sample use cases. 
 
The third initiative is to improve customer-facing e-com website based on stakeholder’s 
requirements. Through use case study and stakeholder interviews, I planned and 
initiated the desired updates and provided the stakeholders with constant updates.  
Application of Theory                                                      Enter the percent of time : 80% 
The application of theory is a mandatory requirement. Therefore it is expected that each 
position will provide some exposure to this criterion.  Clearly outline your contribution to the 
work that was undertaken. 
The majority of my duties involve dealing with large datasets. Ensuring the accuracy 
and inclusiveness of the finalized dataset is key. I needed to make sure that when 
aggregating or filtering my datasets, it manipulates the data as intended. Data 
verification and assessment is performed after each data-wrangling procedure to 
ensure no unintended data manipulations exist. 
 
While analyzing the dataset, it was important to isolate external variables in the data. 
Using test - control group analysis ensures that the measured difference is caused by a 
specific factor instead of multiple, which helped us increase the accuracy and 
confidence of our findings. 
 
Progress is always tracked and timestamped for long and complex data manipulation 
processes, this is so that if we identify a potential problem in the process, we can 
restart from the most recent timestamped milestone.  
Other Experience 
Please describe how your work experience addressed the other four criteria - (practical 
experience, engineering management, communication skills and social implications) 
Considering implementation options and finding best one was important and a 
consistent part of my work. During the work revolving around improving the data 
visualization dashboard on Tableau, I came up with two improvement methods and 
compared their strength and weaknesses for a major data filtering improvement. Both 
methods would achieve the same major objective, however, they both have their 
constraints. With the addition of new stakeholder requirements later on from our weekly 
stakeholder meetings, one of the methods became a better choice as the other would 
now restrict the development of the new requirement.  
 
Throughout the work term on all my projects, I am committed to staying updated with all 
my stakeholders. Meetings for each project will occur at least once per week, where 
updates, new requirements, and roadblocks are discussed. Throughout these meetings, 
I would also make sure that I understood the intention behind the stakeholder’s 
suggestions, which would help me in providing improvements that fit their needs 
perfectly.  
 
Presentations were a large part of my work revolving around the causal impact 
initiative. Since the stakeholders were not experts in data analysis, the findings and 
details of the results had to be presented in a more visualized and simplified manner. I 
was able to compress complex data results into one-liners that the average person 
would understand. This also applies to my mid-term and final coop presentations, 
where I presented complex topics in my work in front of supply chain senior managers, 
who aren’t familiar with these data analytic concepts. By providing animations and 
visualizations, I was able to easily explain my work to the audience.... 3 
 
 
Name of Supervisor: Hamad Akram 
Title of Supervisor: 
Data Scientist 
Mailing Address: 
3154 Gladish Grove 
 
 
Mississauga, ON 
 
L5M 0C3 
 
 
Phone number: 
2894569330 
E-mail address: 
hamadakram@outlook.com 
 
Supervisor’s Signature: 
 
Professional Engineer:    Yes    No 
Licence/Registration Number: N/A 
Date:  
 
28-APR-2021

Expanded Report 
 
Job Details 
For my work term at PepsiCo Foods Canada, I was able to engage in three projects as a member 
of the business innovation team. Throughout the term, I managed 3 projects, each with a 
separate team, the media team, the consumer insights team, and the marketing team. 
 
The first project is to perform a Causal Impact analysis for the media team. Each causal impact 
analysis contains 3 major processes, test-control store pool formation, causal impact analysis, 
and at last, result-analysis and reporting. I was responsible for the results analysis and reporting 
stage of one of the causal impact analyses we were in the process of finishing. I was responsible 
to take the outputted datasets from a causal impact Knime workflow, analyze it and extract 
valuable data insights that could tell us whether the campaign was successful and why. Using 
techniques such as data aggregation, I was able to determine where did the campaign work, 
which store banners were impacted more, which population was buying into the 
advertisements. The results were presented to all stakeholders including an overview of the 
data used, our findings, and what we think are the executable next steps for our next media 
campaign given the results. 
 
The second project is to improve the user experience of an internal dashboarding tool for the 
consumer insights team. The tool initially has not been updated in a long time, some functions 
were not working as intended, and the working features suffer from long loading times. The 
consumer insight team members understand how to use the tool but are not technical experts 
on how to improve the usability of the tool. I took the initiative to meet with them and identify 
any requirements and desired features that they are looking for and started working on the 
changes. Using Tableau, I was able to build all features as requested by the consumer insight 
team and improving the efficiency of the tool. Because of the size of the backend dataset, the 
tool would initially take about 1 minute to filter through a user-selected item. I was able to 
speed up this process and cut the 1-minute load time down to as low as 2 seconds. This 
initiative was completed in an agile environment involving twice-a-week stakeholder meetings. 
Each milestone is saved and tracked, and each feature is tested with sample use cases. 
 
The third project is to improve a customer-facing e-com website based on stakeholder’s 
requirements. The project started as a simple website update and refresh to make sure 
products on there are our most up-to-date product offerings. As I was performing the product 
list updates, I identified a few other potential opportunities for improvement for the e-com site. 
After writing them down and proposing the ideas to my supervisor, I was given the project of 
improving the user experience of the e-com site. I was able to initiate 3 main UI changes to the 
site, first is to change the sequencing logic of our products on the site, the second is to refine 
product photos to make important info pop out and eliminate unnecessary labels that were 
unreadable on the packaging photo anyways, the third change was to improve the 
categorization logic for our products on the site.... After a great amount of communication with stakeholders across the marketing team and 
salesforce team, I was able to execute the first change and boost the monthly sales volume of 
selected underperforming products by 30%+ on average. The rest of the changes aren’t 
executed but are well underway and are awaiting execution. 
 
Course Work 
Relating to the course works I have done at the University of Waterloo, I was able to use a lot of 
what I learned from my courses in this coop. 
 
First, I was able to apply the Agile Scrum methodology I learned from MSCI 444 in this 
internship at PepsiCo as a project manager. To be more specific, I applied my knowledge of the 
agile way of organizing updates and feedbacks, connecting with stakeholders at least twice a 
week for all three of my projects. Alongside that, I knew how to prepare and perform 
stakeholder interviews so that I knew exactly what the stakeholders are looking for. All of these 
are thanks to the content that I have learned from MSCI 444. 
 
Secondly, since a lot of projects during this internship were data-focused, it was very handy to 
know database structure and SQL-related knowledge, which I learned from MSCI 346. I was 
able to easily come up with simple to intermediate SQL queries that retrieved the dataset that I 
needed from the database. PepsiCo Canada has a large and complex database to store their 
data, but because I knew the database structure, I was able to quickly understand the overall 
layout of the database and find exactly where the needed schema and tables were located.   
 
Another course that helped me immensely was the organizational design and technology 
course, with the course code MSCI 311. With a deep understanding of the theories behind the 
organizational structure and how technologies are used within an organization to increase its 
productivity at different scales, I was able to quickly understand and identify the needs of each 
team that reached out to me for the respective technical projects. I was able to quickly identify 
underlying user needs and start developing the features each team is looking for. 
 
Self-Reflection: 
Expectations: 
This is the first term that I was able to land a project manager position. Although in the past, I 
have had experience managing technical projects, it is way more formal this time, and I was 
able to fully take advantage of all the learnings from previous coops in this coop. 
 
I was able to handle 3 projects simultaneously, meeting and organizing 14 stakeholders with 
their requirements and feedback. It felt easier than I expected, partially thanks to the past 
management experience I gained from previous coops. In many ways, this coop is one of my 
best coops, I was able to handle the required tasks and duties with ease, and our team was 
extremely friendly and welcoming.

Additionally, I was able to learn a lot about data analysis and how to wrangle and manipulate 
large datasets. I was able to fluently use Tableau to present complex datasets in a very visual 
and easy-to-understand way. Toward the end of my internship, I was able to quickly retrieve 
needed datasets requested by other members of the team using DB Visualizer and SQL queries. 
 
In conclusion, I have met my learning goals for this term, and I would rate this term as one of 
my best internships so far. 
 
Improvement: 
After my first official project management work experience, I think I should continue to 
improve on my ability to set the proper project scope and stick to it. 
 
During two of the projects that I have done this term, there were instances where because of a 
few minor bugs and issues with the deliverable, I had to delay the schedule of the project. 
Later, in a 1 on 1 feedback session with my manager, I was told that although seeking 
perfection is good, I should work on focusing on the bigger picture and not let minor issues 
affect the overall progress of the project. 
 
I have great attention to detail, while it helps me deliver high-quality work, it sometimes also 
distracts me from the main objective. Like most issues, I think I need to try to improve on this 
through more experience. I should try to always think about the bigger picture, always asking 
myself: “is this feature going to impact/contribute to the MVP?”. I will also be more conscious 
about this issue that I have and monitor it in my future projects. 
 
Teamwork 
Same as the last coop term, this coop term was also remote. This means it is a challenge to 
work with others as every way of communication will be virtual. As a Project Manager, I must 
constantly connect with my stakeholders, while emails are sufficient for basic information 
transfer, frequent meetings are required for items as small as a 5-minute discussion. 
 
To have good teamwork, I needed to establish great communication with my stakeholders. 
Different from last coop term, I am now connecting with 3 external teams in the company 
instead of members from the same team. This makes it so much harder to start each meeting 
as we rarely knew what each other is working on or going through. I am not a person that is 
good at small talks, so I struggled to fully connect with my stakeholders at the beginning.  
 
However, my manager on my team is very good at small talks, so I decided to learn from him. 
Every time we have a meeting together, I would keep mental notes about how he started our 
meeting. Sometimes the “ice breaker” at the start would be team-specific, but most of the 
time, he would often start with something very causal and general, so I was about to learn a lot 
of the opening phrase from him.

At the same time, I tried to make sure that I kept track of some of the items my stakeholders 
told me about their life or their work. Next time we meet, I would start by asking about the 
status of whatever they mentioned during our last meeting. 
 
I was able to use the above two methods to quickly get closer with my stakeholders, making 
virtual meetings way easier to organize and execute, which helped me make sure what I was 
working on was consistently aligned with stakeholder’s requirements. 
 
Next CO-OP 
Although I have learned a lot from this internship, my future career goal stays the same as last 
term, which was to take on roles that focus more on product management instead of project 
management. I still plan to find a product manager position at a tech-focused company. This 
term’s learnings won’t go to waste, as I was able to explore the data analytic industry at a 
deeper level and learn to make data-driven decisions. As a product manager, I could use this to 
make sure my future product design decisions are backed by data insights. Furthermore, I have 
met and connected with many mentors and talented individuals, which can potentially 
contribute to my career in the future. Lastly, I learned lots of valuable soft skills that could be 
applied to a product management position. 
 
For next term, I will explore all PM roles, including program, project and product management, 
all of which will be a great experience for me, but I will put major emphasis on product 
management as that is the direction that I would like to head toward. 
 
Resume Description of CO-OP 
- 
Actively coordinated updates and feedback with 10+ stakeholders for 3 cross-functional 
projects in an agile environment  
- 
Consulted the consumer insights team to transform their data clustering process, 
increasing productivity by 200%+ 
- 
Led media campaign causal impact analysis for the media team, proposing a new data-
driven strategy with a 20%+ sales lift  
- 
Proposed and executed e-com store UI/UX changes for the marketing team that 
increased monthly sales by 30%+


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Work Term Report 
Course Number: MSCI 392 
Student ID:20704765 
Student Name: Gary Yong 
Date: September 15, 2020

1 
 
 
Pregraduation Experience Record Form 
 
 
Instructions 
 
a - If you are using a word processing software such as “Word” or ‘WordPerfect”, simply enter 
the information in the shaded fields (These fields will expand; you can type as much information 
as you wish in each section.)  Otherwise, print the form and provide the information on separate 
sheets. 
b - Print the completed form and ask your supervisor to review the information, complete the 
last portion and sign the document. 
c - Retain the completed and signed form until you’re ready to apply for your P.Eng. licence.  
PEO will only determine the eligibility of your pre-graduation experience when you apply for your 
licence. 
 
Section to be completed by the student 
 
Name of student: Zhenghan (Gary) Yong  
 
University: University of Waterloo  
 
Program of study: Management Engineering 
 
Expected graduation date: May 2022 (month and year) 
 
Work period: From: 15/06/2020 (DD/MM/YY) To: 28/08/2020 (DD/MM/YY) 
 
 
 
 
Job title: Product Manager and Software Project Developer 
 
Company name: Electro Source 
 
 
Job Description 
Please describe the engineering component of your position in 3 to 5 sentences. 
For my work term at Electro Source, I was able to fulfill duties as a product manager as 
well as a software project developer for a proof of concept of a remote working platform 
built to increase the hardware/software hybrid design team’s productivity. 
 
As a product manager, I focused on four main duties: performing research and analysis 
on the project idea, outline objectives and keep track of the development of the MVP for 
the project, lead development following Agile Scrum methodology to make sure 
features developed to align with user’s needs, translate technical achievements of the 
prototype into user-facing stories and present to the sales team.  
 
As a software project developer, I focused on these main duties: complete tickets

2 
assigned on JIRA for the development team, testing and revising new features, design 
UI/UX such that interfaces are user friendly.  
 
I worked with a team of six, consisting of two COOP students including me, and four 
full-time employees who assisted us with support when roadblocks appear. Two weekly 
meetings were set up to update the full-time employees on our progress on the project. I 
also led our development team’s bi-weekly sprint retrospective and planning meetings, 
as well as a daily stand-up meeting to make sure problems can be reported as soon as 
they are discovered.  
Application of Theory                                                      Enter the percent of time : 80% 
The application of theory is a mandatory requirement. Therefore it is expected that each 
position will provide some exposure to this criterion.  Clearly outline your contribution to the 
work that was undertaken. 
A large part of my duty was to perform research and analysis on the market our product 
is targeting. It was important for me to extensively perform competitive analysis 
between existing solutions in the market with what we are planning to build. Once we 
found a place in the market for our product, we as a team discussed and determined the 
prioritization of features to be built for the MVP of this product. I was able to compile 
our findings and come up with a timeline for each product milestone, then discuss and 
revise it with our team. Furthermore, along with the team, we interviewed clients on their 
needs and struggles on the existing workflow of the hardware/software hybrid design 
process and summarized our findings into our objectives of the product.  
 
With the objectives in mind, I was able to come up with technical user stories on our 
JIRA board with actionable sub-tasks that our developers can get started working on. It 
was important to make sure that stories are categorized into epics and have acceptance 
criteria attached.  
 
Other Experience 
Please describe how your work experience addressed the other four criteria - (practical 
experience, engineering management, communication skills and social implications) 
Since it is a relatively small team, we were required to wear multiple hats at the same 
time. I took on the role of a Scrum Master in the team, who led Scrum related meetings 
such as daily stand-up with developers. Organizing the bi-weekly retrospective and 
planning meetings was also important as it maintained team productivity in the time of 
disconnection and remote working during the pandemic. 
 
The presentation was also the responsibility that I took on for the team. I led weekly 
update presentations for the project to managers and president of the company, making 
sure that our technical accomplishments were easily understood by people like the 
sales team.  
 
At the end of my internship, I compiled written documentation for our progress on the 
product. Along with those documents, I have also organized other research resources 
and PowerPoints into folders and shared with the upcoming interns that will take over 
this project.    
 
 
 
 
Name of Supervisor: Michael Nykoluk 
Title of Supervisor: 
President

3 
Mailing Address: 
      
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
      
Phone number: 
 416-417-8671 
E-mail address: 
 nykoluk@electrosource.com 
 
Supervisor’s Signature: 
__ 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Professional Engineer:    Yes    No 
Licence/Registration Number:  
 
 
Date:  
 
________ 
_______________________ 
 
No
September 15, 2020

Expanded Report 
 
Job Details 
For my work term at Electro Source, I was able to fulfill duties as a product manager as well as a 
software project developer for a proof of concept of a remote working platform built to 
increase the hardware/software hybrid design team's productivity. 
 
As a product manager, I focused on four main duties: performing research and analysis on the 
project idea, outline objectives and keep track of the development of the MVP for the project, 
lead development following Agile Scrum methodology to make sure features developed to align 
with user's needs, translate technical achievements of the prototype into user-facing stories 
and present to the sales team.  
 
A large part of my duty was to perform research and analysis on the market our product is 
targeting. It was important for me to extensively perform competitive analysis between existing 
solutions in the market with what we are planning to build. Once we found a place in the 
market for our product, we as a team discussed and determined the prioritization of features to 
be built for the MVP of this product. I was able to compile our findings and come up with a 
timeline for each product milestone, then discuss and revise it with our team. Furthermore, 
along with the team, we interviewed clients on their needs and struggles on the existing 
workflow of the hardware/software hybrid design process and summarized our findings into 
our objectives of the product. With the objectives in mind, I was able to come up with technical 
user stories on our JIRA board with actionable sub-tasks that our developers can get started 
working on. It was important to make sure that stories are categorized into epics and have 
acceptance criteria attached. 
 
I worked with a team of six, consisting of two COOP students including me, and four full-time 
employees who assisted us with support when roadblocks appear. Two weekly meetings were 
set up to update the full-time employees on our progress on the project. I also led our 
development team's bi-weekly sprint retrospective and planning meetings, as well as a daily 
stand-up meeting to make sure problems can be reported as soon as they are discovered. 
 
Since it is a relatively small team, we were required to wear multiple hats at the same time. I 
took on the role of a Scrum Master in the team, who led Scrum related meetings such as daily 
stand-up with developers. Organizing the bi-weekly retrospective and planning meetings was 
also important as it maintained team productivity in the time of disconnection and remote 
working during the pandemic. 
 
The presentation was also the responsibility that I took on for the team. I led weekly update 
presentations for the project to managers and president of the company, making sure that our 
technical accomplishments were easily understood by people like the sales team.... At the end of my internship, I compiled written documentation for our progress on the product. 
Along with those documents, I have also organized other research resources and PowerPoints 
into folders and shared with the upcoming interns that will take over this project.    
 
Course Work 
Relating to the course works I have done at the University of Waterloo; I find myself taking 
advantage of a lot of the knowledge I have learned at school in my internship. 
 
First of all, I was able to apply the Agile Scrum methodology I learned from MSCI 444 in this 
internship at Electro Source as a Scrum Master. To be more specific, I applied my knowledge of 
creating user stories, hosting sprint retrospective meetings, and planning for development 
sprints. I was also leading a development team that is new to agile through the concept of a 
sprint as well as how to use JIRA to keep track of development work. Alongside that, I knew 
how to prepare and perform user interviews so that our product can be more user friendly and 
easy to use. All of these are thanks to the content that I have learned from MSCI 444. 
 
Another course that helped me immensely was the organizational design and technology 
course, with the course code MSCI 311. With a deep understanding of the theories behind the 
organizational structure and how technologies are used within an organization to increase its 
productivity at different scales, I was able to quickly identify our remote working platform's 
clients and determine their needs for internal communication methods between hybrid design 
teams. The fact that I knew about the psychology and logistics behind communication in an 
organization helped me to quickly identify underlying user needs and start developing.  
 
Self-Reflection: 
Expectations: 
Ever since my first internship, I have always aimed to become an aspiring product manager, and 
this term is the very first term that I was able to land a product manager position. In many 
ways, this term is an important milestone for me on my career journey. 
 
I took ownership of a technical product at Electro Source, officially, as a product manager. 
Although over the past internships, I have always partially owned my own product that I was 
working on, this time is different in that I was able to fully take control and use all the 
experience I gained previously and apply them to this product at Electro Source. I applied a lot 
of the techniques I observed from previous product owners and project managers that I 
thought really contributed to the product's success at Electro Source, and it worked out quite 
nicely. For example, I followed the Agile Scrum approach that one of my previous product 
owners implemented to our project, it not only increased the organization of tasks and 
productivity but also made sure that our team stayed close during times of physical isolation. 
Overall, I am satisfied with what I have accomplished at Electro Source.

Improvement: 
After my first official product management work experience, I found that I should improve on 
my communication skills.  
Communication has always been a weakness of mine, although it has been improving over 
time, I realized that I need to become much better soon since it is a crucial skill that a good 
product manager should possess. Before our weekly meetings, I find myself prepping a lot to 
ensure the smoothness of the discussion. The fact that communicating my ideas to others 
doesn't come naturally is a big problem in terms of increasing efficiency of work, and it may 
become a much bigger problem as the size of the team I deal with grows.  
 
I think the only way to make this better is to practice. I have a lot of group projects for school 
coming up and I decided to take lead on meetings and discussions. This may include going 
through team members' ideas during a brainstorming session or leading a discussion of a 
roadblock in our project with the rest of the team. I think this can help me get better at 
communicating.  
 
Teamwork 
 
Teamwork during this challenging time at work cannot get harder. Throughout the entire work 
term, I did not meet with my employer nor any of my teammates. It made me realize the 
importance of face-to-face social interaction, even when it's as little as a 'good morning' as your 
teammate walk past your desk in the morning.  
 
As the product manager, I had to have a close relationship with my teammates to be able to 
share and discuss product ideas with them. It started off with very stiff meetings as I was not 
experienced with remote working either. Having a bad start wasn't a very good sign, however, I 
managed to save the day with Agile Scrum methodologies. I set up daily stand-up meetings, 
sprint retro meetings as well as a JIRA board so our software team could keep track of tasks 
more clearly. For the meetings, I implemented a routine where we would start every meeting 
by talking about something interesting that's is happening in our lives, this could be the 
weather( since we were in different cities, across Canada), the COVID situation, or the new TV 
show they have been watching. I found that just these 5 minutes of small talk before very stiff 
meetings can really work wonders. A previously quiet and slow meeting turned to a more 
natural conversation between colleagues, which increased the productivity of these meetings 
dramatically.  
 
Moving forward, I am prepared to deal with similar issues at my next internship, as the 
pandemic may likely stick around, and we may have to work from home again. However, this 
time, I will be prepared. 
 
Next CO-OP

As I mentioned, this was my first product management internship. For the next internship, I 
plan to find another product manager position at a bigger company. I think it is important for 
me to explore the differences between PM at a different scale of companies because it can 
enable an opportunity for me to learn even more about what it means to be a product 
manager. At the same time, I am excited to meet new people that could inspire me and become 
my mentors. CO-OP to me means a valuable opportunity to learn from people, all kinds of 
people from different disciplines. And my goal for the next term is to do just that while 
solidifying my skills as a product manager. What better way to do both than going into one of 
the big 5 tech companies and learn how things are done there. 
 
Resume Description of CO-OP 
 
Conceived of and owned an MVP of a remote work collaboration platform for 
software/hardware hybrid design teams  
Road mapped the MVP, prioritized features, and proposed the timeline for transforming the 
idea into a demonstrable product  
Interacted with 10+ clients through interviews and demos to continuously align key product 
features with user's needs  
Implemented Scrum and led stand-up, planning, and retro meetings that maintained remote 
team momentum  
Led a cross-functional team to finish MVP features in just 4 two-week sprints with high-quality 
deliverables

[1](https://ppl-ai-file-upload.s3.amazonaws.com/web/direct-files/attachments/69750194/59585b92-4ed1-46c7-88c4-6c978499f8f3/MSCI391-Work-Term-Report-z2yong-3B.pdf)
[2](https://ppl-ai-file-upload.s3.amazonaws.com/web/direct-files/attachments/69750194/bbf0ccfc-6add-4ea8-a724-d35ac419d629/4A-Work-Term-Report.pdf)
[3](https://ppl-ai-file-upload.s3.amazonaws.com/web/direct-files/attachments/69750194/ecab6bfa-5711-45cb-bf31-3cdbbdb5955e/3A.pdf)